Black Holes
Black holes are among the most mysterious cosmic objects, much studied but not fully understood. These objects aren’t really holes. They’re huge concentrations of matter packed into very tiny spaces. A black hole is so dense that gravity just beneath its surface, the event horizon, is strong enough that nothing – not even light – can escape. The event horizon isn’t a surface like Earth’s or even the Sun’s. It’s a boundary that contains all the matter that makes up the black hole.

There is much we don’t know about black holes, like what matter looks like inside their event horizons. However, there is a lot that scientists do know about black holes.

A large, black circle representing a black hole occupies the right third of the frame in this illustration. Thick, clumpy orange streaks arc above and below it, essentially surrounding it. The top arc extends down to the lower left and then curves around in front of the black hole to form a disk that is tilted toward the viewer. Near the inner edge of the disk, several bright, whiter spots have blue filaments looping above them, representing flares. The words “Artist’s Concept” appear in the bottom left corner in gray.
This artist’s concept portrays the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy, known as Sagittarius A* (A-star). It’s surrounded by a swirling accretion disk of hot gas. The black hole’s gravity bends light from the far side of the disk, making it appear to wrap above and below the black hole. Several flaring hot spots that resemble solar flares, but on a more energetic scale, are seen in the disk. NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope has detected both bright flares and fainter flickers coming from Sagittarius A*. The flickers are so rapid they must originate very close to the black hole.
Illustration: NASA, ESA, CSA, Ralf Crawford (STScI)
Finding Black Holes
Black holes don’t emit or reflect light, making them effectively invisible to telescopes. Scientists primarily detect and study them based on how they affect their surroundings:

Black holes can be surrounded by rings of gas and dust, called accretion disks, that emit light across many wavelengths, including X-rays.
A supermassive black hole’s intense gravity can cause stars to orbit around it in a particular way. Astronomers tracked the orbits of several stars near the center of the Milky Way to prove it houses a supermassive black hole, a discovery that won the 2020 Nobel Prize.
When very massive objects accelerate through space, they create ripples in the fabric of space-time called gravitational waves. Scientists can detect some of these by the ripples’ effect on detectors.
Massive objects like black holes can bend and distort light from more distant objects. This effect, called gravitational lensing, can be used to find isolated black holes that are otherwise invisible.
Black Holes Are Not ...
Wormholes. They don’t provide shortcuts between different points in space, or portals to other dimensions or universes.
Cosmic vacuum cleaners. Black holes don’t suck in other matter. From far enough away, their gravitational effects are just like those of other objects of the same mass.

Bond Market vs. Stock Market: An Overview
Stocks and bonds are among the most common investment assets, traded through various markets and brokers. Stocks represent ownership in a company, while bonds function as loans to governments or corporations, giving investors income through interest. Understanding how each market works helps shape investment decisions, and balancing both within a diversified portfolio can help manage risk and return.

Key Takeaways
The stock market trades equity securities through exchanges, while the bond market trades debt securities mainly over the counter.
Stocks usually offer higher returns but come with greater risks, whereas bonds provide stable income with less risk.
In the U.S., major stock exchanges include Nasdaq and the NYSE, while bonds lack a centralized trading platform.
Stock market performance is measured by indexes like the S&P 500, while bond performance is measured by indexes like the Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond Index.
Investing in both stocks and bonds can balance risk and enhance growth potential in a diversified portfolio.
Understanding the Bond Market
The bond market is where investors go to trade (buy and sell) debt securities, prominently bonds, which may be issued by corporations or governments. The bond market is also known as the debt or the credit market.

Securities sold on the bond market are all various forms of debt. By buying a bond, credit, or debt security, you are lending money for a set period and charging interest—the same way a bank does to its debtors.

The bond market provides investors with a steady, albeit nominal, source of regular income. For example, Treasury bonds provide biannual interest payments. Many investors hold bonds to save for retirement, education, or other long-term needs.

Investors have a wide range of research and analysis tools to get more information on bonds. Investopedia is one source, breaking down the basics of the market and the different types of securities available. Other resources include Yahoo! Finance’s Bond Center and Morningstar. They provide up-to-date data, news, analysis, and research. Investors can also get more specific details about bond offerings through their brokerage accounts.

Note
A mortgage bond is a type of security backed by pooled mortgages, paying interest to the holder monthly, quarterly, or semiannually.

Trading Platforms in the Bond Market
The bond market does not have a centralized location to trade, meaning bonds mainly sell over the counter (OTC). As such, individual investors do not typically participate in the bond market. Those who do include large institutional investors like pension funds, foundations, and endowments, as well as investment banks, hedge funds, and asset management firms. Individual investors who wish to invest in bonds may do so through a bond fund managed by an asset manager.

Many brokerages now also allow individual investors direct access to corporate bond issues, Treasuries, municipal bonds (munis), and certificates of deposit (CDs).

New securities are put up for sale on the primary market, and any subsequent trading takes place on the secondary market, where investors buy and sell securities they already own. These fixed-income securities range from bonds to bills to notes. By providing these securities on the bond market, issuers can get the funding they need for projects or other expenses needed.

What is quantum computing?
Quantum computing is an emergent field of computer science and engineering that harnesses the unique qualities of quantum mechanics to solve problems beyond the ability of even the most powerful classical computers.

The field of quantum computing includes a range of disciplines, including quantum hardware and quantum algorithms. While still in development, quantum technology will soon be able to solve complex problems that classical supercomputers can’t solve (or can’t solve fast enough).

By taking advantage of quantum physics, large-scale quantum computers would be able to tackle certain complex problems many times faster than modern classical machines. With a quantum computer, some problems that might take a classical computer thousands of years to solve might be solved in a matter of minutes or hours.

Quantum mechanics, the study of physics at very small scales, reveals surprising fundamental natural principles. Quantum computers specifically harness these phenomena to access mathematical methods of solving problems not available with classical computing alone.

Practical applications for quantum computing
In practice, quantum computers are expected to be broadly useful for two types of tasks: modeling the behavior of physical systems and identifying patterns and structures in information.

Quantum mechanics is a bit like the operating system of the universe. A computer that uses quantum mechanical principles to process information has certain advantages in modeling physical systems. Therefore, quantum computing is of particular interest for chemistry and material science applications. For example, quantum computers might help researchers seeking useful molecules for pharmaceutical or engineering applications identify candidates more quickly and efficiently.

Quantum computers can also process data by using mathematical techniques not accessible to classical computers. That means they can give structure to data and help discover patterns that classical algorithms alone might miss. In practice, this might be useful for applications ranging from biology (for example, protein folding) to finance.

Today, much of the work of quantum computing research involves searching for algorithms and applications within these broad categories of expected use. That is in addition to building the new technology itself.

As leading institutions like IBM, Amazon, Microsoft and Google as well as startups like Rigetti and Ionq continue investing heavily in this exciting technology, quantum computing is estimated to become a USD 1.3 trillion industry by 2035.

Four key principles of quantum mechanics
When discussing quantum computers, it is important to understand that at the smallest scales, the universe behaves very differently from what we are used to in our day-to-day lives. Compared to what we learned in grade-school physics, the behaviors of quantum objects are often bizarre and counterintuitive.

Describing the behaviors of quantum particles presents a unique challenge. Most common-sense paradigms for the natural world lack the vocabulary to communicate the surprising behaviors of quantum particles. But quantum mechanics reveals how the universe really works. Quantum computers take advantage of quantum mechanics by replacing traditional binary bit circuits with quantum particles called quantum bits, or qubits. These particles behave differently from bits, exhibiting unique properties that can be described only with quantum mechanics.

To understand quantum computing, it is important to understand four key quantum mechanics principles:

Superposition
Entanglement
Decoherence
Interference
Superposition
A qubit itself isn't very useful. But it can place the quantum information it holds into a state of superposition, which represents a combination of all possible configurations of the qubit. Groups of qubits in superposition can create complex, multidimensional computational spaces. Complex problems can be represented in new ways in these spaces.

When a quantum system is measured, its state collapses from a superposition of possibilities into a binary state, which can be registered like binary code as either a zero or a one.

Entanglement
Entanglement is the ability of qubits to correlate their state with other qubits. Entangled systems are so intrinsically linked that when quantum processors measure a single entangled qubit, they can immediately determine information about other qubits in the entangled system.

Interference
Interference is the engine of quantum computing. An environment of qubits placed into a state of collective superposition structures information in a way that looks like waves, with amplitudes associated with each outcome.

These amplitudes become the probabilities of the outcomes of a measurement of the system. These waves can build on each other when many of them peak at a particular outcome or cancel each other out when peaks and troughs interact. Amplifying a probability or canceling out others are both forms of interference.

Decoherence
Decoherence is the process in which a system in a quantum state collapses into a nonquantum state. It can be intentionally triggered by measuring a quantum system or by other environmental factors (sometimes these factors trigger it unintentionally). Generally speaking, quantum computing requires avoiding and minimizing decoherence.

How the principles work together
To better understand quantum computing, consider that two surprising ideas are both true. The first is that objects that can be measured as having definite states—qubits in superposition with defined probability amplitudes—behave randomly. The second is that distant objects—in this case, entangled qubits—can still behave in ways that, though individually random, are strongly correlated.

A computation on a quantum computer works by preparing a superposition of computational states. A quantum circuit, prepared by the user, uses operations to entangle qubits and generate interference patterns, as governed by a quantum algorithm. Many possible outcomes are canceled out through interference, while others are amplified. The amplified outcomes are the solutions to the computation.

How do quantum computers work?
The primary difference between classical and quantum computers is that quantum computers use qubits instead of bits. While quantum computing does use binary code, qubits process information differently from classical computers. But what are qubits and where do they come from?

What are qubits?
While classical computers rely on bits (zeros and ones) to store and process data, quantum computers process data differently by using quantum bits (qubits) in superposition.

A qubit can behave like a bit and store either a zero or a one, but it can also be a weighted combination of zero and one at the same time. When qubits are combined, their superpositions can grow exponentially in complexity: two qubits can be in a superposition of the four possible 2-bit strings, three qubits can be in a superposition of the eight possible 3-bit strings, and so on. With 100 qubits, the range of possibilities is astronomical.

Quantum algorithms work by manipulating information in a way inaccessible to classical computers, which can provide dramatic speed-ups for certain problems—especially when quantum computers and high-performance classical supercomputers work together.

Types of qubits
Generally, qubits are created by manipulating and measuring systems that exhibit quantum mechanical behavior, such as superconducting circuits, photons, electrons, trapped ions and atoms.

There are many different ways of making the qubits used in quantum computing today, with some better suited for different types of tasks.

A few of the more common types of qubits in use are as follows:

Superconducting qubits: Made from superconducting materials operating at extremely low temperatures, these qubits are favored for their speed in performing computations and fine-tuned control.
Trapped ion qubits: Trapped ion particles can also be used as qubits and are noted for long coherence times and high-fidelity measurements, but they are much slower than superconducting qubits.
Quantum dots: Quantum dots are small semiconductors that capture a single electron and use it as a qubit, offering promising potential for scalability and compatibility with existing semiconductor technology.
Photons: Photons are individual light particles. They can be used to make qubits and send quantum information across long distances through optical fiber cables. They are being used in quantum communication and quantum cryptography.
Why are qubits useful?
Computers that use quantum bits have certain advantages over computers that use classical bits. Because qubits can hold a superposition and exhibit interference, a quantum computer that uses qubits approaches problems in ways different from classical computers.

As a helpful analogy for understanding how quantum computers use qubits to solve complicated problems, imagine you are standing in the center of a complicated maze. To escape the maze, a traditional classical computing approach would be to “brute force” the problem, trying every possible combination of paths to find the exit. This kind of computer would use bits to explore new paths and remember which ones are dead ends.

A quantum computer might derive the correct path without needing to test all the bad paths, as if it has a bird's-eye view of the maze. However, qubits don't test multiple paths at once. Instead, quantum computers measure the probability amplitudes of qubits to determine an outcome.

These amplitudes function like waves, overlapping and interfering with each other. When asynchronous waves overlap, it effectively eliminates possible solutions to complex problems, and the realized coherent wave or waves present a correct solution.

Quantum computing components
An IBM quantum processor is a wafer not much bigger than the silicon chips found in a laptop. However, modern quantum hardware systems (used to keep the instruments at an ultracold temperature) and the extra room-temperature electronic components to control the system and process quantum data are about the size of an average car.

While the large footprint of a complete quantum hardware system makes most quantum computers anything but portable, researchers and computer scientists are still able to access off-site quantum computing capabilities through cloud computing. The main hardware components of a quantum computer are as follows.

Quantum processors
Composed of qubits laid out in various configurations to allow for communication, quantum chips—also known as the quantum data plane—act as the brain of the quantum computer.

As the core component in a quantum computer, a quantum processor contains the system’s physical qubits and the structures required to hold them in place. Quantum processing units (QPUs) include the quantum chip, control electronics and classical compute hardware required for input and output.

Superconductors
Your desktop computer likely uses a fan to get cold enough to work. Quantum processors need to be very cold—about a hundredth of a degree above absolute zero—to minimize noise and avoid decoherence in order to retain their quantum states. This ultralow temperature is achieved with supercooled superfluids. At these temperatures, certain materials exhibit an important quantum mechanical effect: electrons move through them without resistance. This effect makes them superconductors.

When materials become superconductors, their electrons match up, forming Cooper pairs. These pairs can carry a charge across barriers, or insulators, through a process known as quantum tunneling. Two superconductors placed on either side of an insulator form a Josephson junction, a crucial piece of quantum computing hardware.

Control
Quantum computers use circuits with capacitors and Josephson junctions as superconducting qubits. By firing microwave photons at these qubits, we can control their behavior and get them to hold, change and read out individual units of quantum information.

Quantum software
Research continues improving quantum hardware components, but that’s only one half of the equation. The crux of users’ discovery of quantum advantage will be a highly performant and stable quantum software stack to enable the next generation of quantum algorithms.

In 2024, IBM introduced the first stable version of the Qiskit open source software development kit (SDK), Qiskit SDK 1.x. With over 600,000 registered users and 700 global universities that use it to develop quantum computing classes, Qiskit has become the preferred software stack for quantum computing.

But Qiskit is more than just the world’s most popular quantum development software to build and construct quantum circuits. We are redefining Qiskit to represent the full-stack software for quantum at IBM, extending the Qiskit SDK with middleware software and services to write, optimize and run programs on IBM Quantum systems—including new generative AI code-assistance tools.